Powercat Stand-Alone Payloads
Powercat can also generate
stand-alone payloads.
In the context of Powercat, a payload is a
set of powershell instructions
as well as the portion of the
Powercat script itself
that only includes the features
requested by the user.
Let’s experiment with payloads
in the this next example.
We’ll begin by starting a netcat listener
on Alice’s machine on port 443.
Now we’ll create a stand-alone reverse
shell payload with powercat.
The syntax is the same as a reverse
shell but we add the -g option
to tell powercat we want it
to generate a payload,
and redirect the output to a file.
This will produce a powershell script
that Bob can execute on his machine.
It’s worth noting that stand-alone
payloads like this one
might be easily detected by IDS.
We can attempt to overcome this problem
by making use of PowerShell’s ability
to execute Base64 encoded commands.
To generate a stand-alone
encoded payload,
we use the -ge option and once again
redirect the output to a file:
The file will contain an encoded
string that can be executed
using the PowerShell -E option.
However, since this option was
designed as a way to submit
complex commands on the command line,
the resulting script can not be executed
in the same way as our unencoded payload.
Instead, Bob needs to pass the whole
encoded string to powershell.exe -E,
so let’s copy all of this to
the clipboard.
We’ll return to powershell to
execute our reverse shell.
We run powershell.exe with the -E option…
…paste in our encoded reverse shell…
…and hit enter to execute it.
After running the stand-alone payload,
Alice receives the reverse shell
on her waiting listener.
Excellent, this is another great
tool in our arsenal.
We have covered a variety of tools
that can handle file transfer,
bind shells, and reverse shells.
These tools have varying
features, strengths,
weaknesses, and applicability
during a penetration test.